Restructure tree structure (#768)
ietf-tapswg/api-drafts: draft-ietf-taps-impl.md

The process of establishing a network connection begins when an application expresses intent to communicate with a remote endpoint by calling Initiate. (At this point, any constraints or requirements the application may have on the connection are available from pre-establishment.) The process can be considered complete once there is at least one Protocol Stack that has completed any required setup to the point that it can transmit and receive the application's data.

Connection establishment is divided into two top-level steps: Candidate Gathering, to identify the paths, protocols, and endpoints to use, and Candidate Racing (see Section 4.2.2 of {{I-D.ietf-taps-arch}}), in which the necessary protocol handshakes are conducted so that the transport system can select which set to use.

> This document structures the candidates for racing as a tree as terminological convention; it is not necessary for an implementation to do so, but it does ease the illustration of how racing works. 

Author: ```suggestion
This document structures the candidates for racing as a tree as terminological convention. While a 
a tree structure is not the only way in which racing can be implemented, it does ease the illustration of how racing works. 
```

> 

Reviewer: /it is not necessary for an implementation to do so, but it/a tree structure is not the only way in which bus can be implemented, but this does/ ... might seem to be clearer.

Author: ```suggestion
Connection establishment is divided into two top-level steps: Candidate Gathering, to identify the paths, protocols, and endpoints to use, and Candidate Racing (see Section 4.2.2 of {{I-D.ietf-taps-arch}}), in which the necessary protocol handshakes are conducted so that the transport system can select which set to use.

This document structures the candidates for racing as a tree as terminological convention, While a tree structure is not the only way in which racing can be implemented, it does ease the illustration of how racing works.
```

Author: (added suggested change)

> The most simple example of this process might involve identifying the single IP address to which the implementation wishes to connect, using the system's current default interface or path, and starting a TCP handshake to establish a stream to the specified IP address. However, each step may also vary depending on the requirements of the connection: if the endpoint is defined as a hostname and port, then there may be multiple resolved addresses that are available; there may also be multiple interfaces or paths available, other than the default system interface; and some protocols may not need any transport handshake to be considered "established" (such as UDP), while other connections may utilize layered protocol handshakes, such as TLS over TCP.

Reviewer: Is this /vary/ or /differ/ ?

Author: Differ is better.

> The most simple example of this process might involve identifying the single IP address to which the implementation wishes to connect, using the system's current default interface or path, and starting a TCP handshake to establish a stream to the specified IP address. However, each step may also vary depending on the requirements of the connection: if the endpoint is defined as a hostname and port, then there may be multiple resolved addresses that are available; there may also be multiple interfaces or paths available, other than the default system interface; and some protocols may not need any transport handshake to be considered "established" (such as UDP), while other connections may utilize layered protocol handshakes, such as TLS over TCP.

Author: ```suggestion
The most simple example of this process might involve identifying the single IP address to which the implementation wishes to connect, using the system's current default interface or path, and starting a TCP handshake to establish a stream to the specified IP address. However, each step may also differ depending on the requirements of the connection: if the endpoint is defined as a hostname and port, then there may be multiple resolved addresses that are available; there may also be multiple interfaces or paths available, other than the default system interface; and some protocols may not need any transport handshake to be considered "established" (such as UDP), while other connections may utilize layered protocol handshakes, such as TLS over TCP.
```

The available protocols and paths on a specific system and in a specific context can change; therefore, the result of sorting and the outcome of racing may vary, even when using the same Selection and Connection Properties. However, an implementation ought to provide a consistent outcome to applications, e.g., by preferring protocols and paths that are already used by existing Connections that specified similar Properties.

## Candidate Gathering {#gathering}

The step of gathering candidates involves identifying which paths, protocols, and endpoints may be used for a given Connection. This list is determined by the requirements, prohibitions, and preferences of the application as specified in the Selection Properties.

### Gathering Endpoint Candidates

> Both Local and Remote Endpoint Candidates must be discovered during connection establishment.  To support Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) {{?RFC8445}}, or similar protocols that involve out-of-band indirect signalling to exchange candidates with the Remote Endpoint, it’s important to be able to query the set of candidate Local Endpoints, and give the protocol stack a set of candidate Remote Endpoints, before it attempts to establish connections.

Reviewer: /it's/it is/
is /be able to/ needed?
/give the protocol stack/provide the protocol stack with/
/it attempts/the Local Endpoint attempts/

Author: "be able to" is actually doing something here but I won't quibble. made all these in a suggested change.

> Both Local and Remote Endpoint Candidates must be discovered during connection establishment.  To support Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) {{?RFC8445}}, or similar protocols that involve out-of-band indirect signalling to exchange candidates with the Remote Endpoint, it’s important to be able to query the set of candidate Local Endpoints, and give the protocol stack a set of candidate Remote Endpoints, before it attempts to establish connections.

Author: ```suggestion
Both Local and Remote Endpoint Candidates must be discovered during connection establishment.  To support Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) {{?RFC8445}}, or similar protocols that involve out-of-band indirect signalling to exchange candidates with the Remote Endpoint, it is important to query the set of candidate Local Endpoints, and provide the protocol stack with a set of candidate Remote Endpoints, before the Local Endpoint attempts to establish connections.
```

#### Local Endpoint candidates

> The set of possible Local Endpoints is gathered.  In the simple case, this merely enumerates the local interfaces and protocols, allocates ephemeral source ports.  For example, a system that has WiFi and Ethernet and supports IPv4 and IPv6 might gather four candidate locals (IPv4 on Ethernet, IPv6 on Ethernet, IPv4 on WiFi, and IPv6 on WiFi) that can form the source for a transient.

Reviewer: /allocates ephemeral source ports/and allocates ephemeral source ports/
/locals/Local Endpoints/
/the source/a source/
/transient/????

Author: I'm not sure what transient is doing here (all these are from the original text). Made a suggested change.

> The set of possible Local Endpoints is gathered.  In the simple case, this merely enumerates the local interfaces and protocols, allocates ephemeral source ports.  For example, a system that has WiFi and Ethernet and supports IPv4 and IPv6 might gather four candidate locals (IPv4 on Ethernet, IPv6 on Ethernet, IPv4 on WiFi, and IPv6 on WiFi) that can form the source for a transient.

Author: ```suggestion
The set of possible Local Endpoints is gathered.  In the simple case, this merely enumerates the local interfaces and protocols, and allocates ephemeral source ports.  For example, a system that has WiFi and Ethernet and supports IPv4 and IPv6 might gather four candidate Local Endpoints (IPv4 on Ethernet, IPv6 on Ethernet, IPv4 on WiFi, and IPv6 on WiFi) that can form the source for a transient.
```

If NAT traversal is required, the process of gathering Local Endpoints becomes broadly equivalent to the ICE candidate gathering phase (see Section 5.1.1. of {{RFC8445}}).  The endpoint determines its server reflexive Local Endpoints (i.e., the translated address of a local, on the other side of a NAT, e.g via a STUN sever {{?RFC5389}}) and relayed locals (e.g., via a TURN server {{?RFC5766}} or other relay), for each interface and network protocol.  These are added to the set of candidate Local Endpoints for this connection.

Gathering Local Endpoints is primarily a local operation, although it might involve exchanges with a STUN server to derive server reflexive locals, or with a TURN server or other relay to derive relayed locals.  However, it does not involve communication with the Remote Endpoint.

#### Remote Endpoint Candidates

The Remote Endpoint is typically a name that needs to be resolved into a set of possible addresses that can be used for communication.  Resolving the Remote Endpoint is the process of recursively performing such name lookups, until fully resolved, to return the set of candidates for the remote of this connection.

> How this is done will depend on the type of the Remote Endpoint, and can also be specific to each Local Endpoint.  A common case is when the Remote Endpoint is a DNS name, in which case it is resolved to give a set of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses representing that name.  Some types of remote might require more complex resolution.  Resolving the Remote Endpoint for a peer-to-peer connection might involve communication with a rendezvous server, which in turn contacts the peer to gain consent to communicate and retrieve its set of candidate locals, which are returned and form the candidate remote addresses for contacting that peer.

Reviewer: At the start of a para /How this is/How this resolution is/

Reviewer: /types of remote/ is this /types of Remote Endpoint/ or /remote peer/
/candidate locals/candidate Local Endpoints/
/candidate remote addresses/set of remote ???what??/

Author: Same; accepted suggestions, will pull remaining ??? into a separate issue after merge.

> How this is done will depend on the type of the Remote Endpoint, and can also be specific to each Local Endpoint.  A common case is when the Remote Endpoint is a DNS name, in which case it is resolved to give a set of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses representing that name.  Some types of remote might require more complex resolution.  Resolving the Remote Endpoint for a peer-to-peer connection might involve communication with a rendezvous server, which in turn contacts the peer to gain consent to communicate and retrieve its set of candidate locals, which are returned and form the candidate remote addresses for contacting that peer.

Author: ```suggestion
How this resolution is done will depend on the type of the Remote Endpoint, and can also be specific to each Local Endpoint.  A common case is when the Remote Endpoint is a DNS name, in which case it is resolved to give a set of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses representing that name.  Some types of Remote Endpoint might require more complex resolution.  Resolving the Remote Endpoint for a peer-to-peer connection might involve communication with a rendezvous server, which in turn contacts the peer to gain consent to communicate and retrieve its set of candidate Local Endpoints, which are returned and form the candidate remote addresses for contacting that peer.
```

> Resolving the Remote Endpoint is not a local operation.  It will involve a directory service, and can require communication with the remote to rendezvous and exchange peer addresses.  This can expose some or all of the candidate locals to the remote.

Author: ```suggestion
Resolving the Remote Endpoint is not a local operation.  It will involve a directory service, and can require communication with the Remote Endpoint to rendezvous and exchange peer addresses.  This can expose some or all of the candidate Local Endpoints to the Remote Endpoint.
```

> 

Reviewer: /with the remote/with the remote peer/
/candidate locals to the remote/candidate Local Endpoints to the Remote Endpoint/
